# RAG-Applications-with-LangChain
Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) encompasses a family of systems that extend conventional language models, large and otherwise (LLMs), to incorporate context based on retrieved knowledge from a document base, thereby leading to more truthful and relevant responses being generated upon user queries. 
In this context, LangChain attained particular attention as a framework that simplifies the development of RAG applications, providing orchestration tools for integrating LLMs with external data sources, managing retrieval pipelines, and handling workflows of varying complexity in a robust and scalable manner.

This article provides a practice step-by-step guide to building a very simple local RAG application with LangChain, defining at each step the key components needed. To navigate you through this process, we will be using Python. This article is intended to be an introductory practical resource that supplements the RAG foundations covered in the Understanding RAG series. If you are new to RAG and looking for a gentle theoretical background, we recommend you check out this article series first!
First we will install the libraries outlined above.
Next, we add the necessary imports to start coding.
The first element we need is a knowledge base, implemented as a vector database. This stores the text documents that will be used by the RAG system for context retrieval, and information is typically encoded as vector embeddings. We will use a small collection of nine short text documents describing several destinations in Eastern and Southeast Asia. The dataset is available in a compressed .zip file here. The code below locally downloads the dataset, decompresses it and extracts the text files.
Now that we have a “raw” knowledge base of text documents, we need to split the whole data into chunks and transform them into vector embeddings.
We just initialized one of our key RAG components at the end of the previous code excerpt: the retriever. To make it fully functional, of course, we need to start gluing the rest of the RAG pieces together.
